[MUSIC]
>> Rachel: Before we dive too far into the
tools which are fun, it's important that
we acknowledge, that all browsers have
slightly different rendering pipelines.
They all have their own ways of doing
things and a lot of perf people,
tend to forget that and
only optimize for Chrome.
Because it's got the nicest dev tools and
it's got the biggest share of the market,
but Chrome is not the only browser.
And it has a very specific
performance space and
it has a very specific pipeline for
rendering things.
But it is one that we are very
familiar with, and thus I will use
it to describe one browser's
kind of development.
This is CSS.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry I'm gonna interrupt,
can we just get that
question really quick?
>> Rachel: Yes, I'm sorry.
>> Speaker 2: There's, no, that's okay.
Okay, so before you jump into performance
staff, Christine has a question,
is there any way to reverse an animation
from animation fill, forwards back to
the beginning, initiated by user action?
>> Rachel: That's a good question.
Let's see,
reverse an animation from fill forwards.
>> Rachel: I would assume that Christine
has already tried using
something like changing
the animation to reverse
in that situation,
changing its direction to reverse.
But you would need to also give it
another set of iterations to complete.
And you would have to trigger it to play.
So to that, I'm gonna answer I don't know.
I haven't encountered
that use case myself, so
I don't know how to provide a solution for
it.
If anyone has any ideas, would be
awesome to share them with Christine.
>> Speaker 3: GreenSock.
>> Rachel: What did you say?
>> Rachel: GreenSock.
>> Speaker 3: GSAP.
>> Rachel: All right,
that's one option but
GreenSock is not CSS animation.
All right, so this is csstriggers.com.
It used to just be for Chrome.
This is maintained by some Chrome folks.
So originally, it was just for
the Blink engine.
But now it displays information,
about Blink, Gecko, that is,
I believe, Firefox, WebKit, Safari, Opera.
Sorry, Opera is blank and edgeHTML.
So now we can see how all of
these different CSS properties
affect their rendering pipelines as well.
So change from default
is that initial change,
when you first animate something and
then subsequent updates after it started
changing, how much does it
cost to continue changing it.
I'm going to assume that the blank spots
here are for information insufficient.
Now as you can see these do change
a little bit, from one to the other.
This is color coded so
the purple bars represent layout,
the light green ones represent paint and
the dark green ones represent composite.
What do those mean?
So does anyone remember when
we used to build websites?
We were admonished not to use percentages.
We used to use tables, and you could
set them to be like 50% wide, and
the cell would be 25% wide.
And all of the books
used to say things like,
don't use percentages on your images or
on your layouts because
browsers take a long time to
calculate those, use exact widths.
So then we started being like, okay, exact
width, okay, it's 800 pixels wide and
the image should be this.
Browsers are a lot better at doing that.
Computers are a lot faster and now we can
use percentages like nobody's business.
But it still takes browsers
time to calculate,
where everything should be on the page.
From its width all the way to how long the
text is, where this image appears, etc.
It does all these calculations,
that's called the layout process,
where it's calculating where things go.
The paint process is where the individual
items are painted, sometimes on the GPU.
They are painted and
then composite happens.
Where those things
are pasted into the layout.
That's might be a pidgin
way of putting it, but
that's the best way I can describe,
it's a three-step process.
The where, the what, and
then combining them.
So, we can see which of these different
effects are being triggered by which
of these different CSS properties.
I get to do this one
all on the screen now.
So when we see solid bars,
that's a very bad sign.
For instance, a line items.
That changes if words are centered or
if they're right or left aligned.
This can change layout in pretty big ways.
So not only does it trigger layout,
but it also triggers repaints, and
it triggers composites.
So it's a very intensive thing for
any browser to perform.
We get to backface-visibility, we start
seeing that in different browsers,
it doesn't trigger layouts.
It doesn't trigger in Firefox,
it appears to not trigger paint either.
So once you start seeing
these bars greying out,
these are things that
are better to animate.
I don't believe that you can animate
background-attachment, by the way.
Sometimes, that's why they are grayed out.
All right, like background-repeat,
that's not animatable.
So let's see.
Let's go on this little stroll.
Borders trigger all kinds of stuff because
when you change something's width,
you're pushing things around on the page.
No, I gotta go do the layout.
It's a really expensive
performance problem.
[SOUND] Cursor, cursor's great,
not that you can animate that.
So many solid bars,
what can we orphans, orphans?
Man.
Perspective, this is
a 3D transform property,
which we haven't been using at all today.
Things associated with 3D transforms
tend to be very performant.
Here we go, transform.
So transform as you can see on blink, that
is to say on Chrome and the new Opera.
Transform is very performant in that
it does not trigger layouts and
it does not trigger repaints.
So when you're moving something around,
using transform it's not actually
re-positioning anything else on the page.
So Chrome just kicks it over to the GPU.
And continues onward with
its currently out and
doesn't bother re-calculating anything.
But you can see that in the other
browsers, that's not the case.
So, this might not be as performant on
other browsers as it is here in Chrome.
Although it looks like Edge at
least doesn't trigger layouts
after that initial change.
That's nice to know Edge, thank you.
[SOUND] And opacity should be in here too.
I was a bit surprised by opacity but
it is a little bit more across
the board performant than transform.
These are our two favorites as
far as animatable properties,
these are our two favorites to win,
opacity and transform.
Because they're the least disruptive
across the most browsers.
You can see here that opacity in Blink,
in Firefox, and
even in Edge, does not trigger layouts.
And in Chrome,
in Blink, it doesn't trigger repaints
either on subsequent changes.
So it's a handy resource.
But once again, you should definitely
try to check these against
the browsers you're developing for.
Because sometimes, things don't
perform the way you think they would.
So our two best friends are opacity and
transform because they
trigger the least amount of layouts,
the least amount of repaints.
So how do we take common animations and
think of them in terms of transform and
opacity?
As a designer, this is really,
really, really, really important,
because I have seen designers
do some really cool things.
Then try to hand them off to
developers and the developer be like,
this does not look good
in the browser at all.
You can't do all of these things.
In fact I have actually made some things
that today don't perform too well.
We'll look at some of those too.
Once again, I use my own examples,
because if I'm gonna embarrass anyone,
I should embarrass myself.
But first, let's take a look at some of
these things that we can convert over.
For instance, instead of animating height
or width, which trigger a lot of layout.
You can use scale to transform the size
of something or something's container.
Instead of transforming position,
like using position absolute top zero,
left zero and then animating the top and
left properties.
You can use translate.
Translate is going to
position that element in
relation to where it existed previously.
It's sort of like position relative,
except it doesn't move anything else
around it.
>> Rachel: And
we can use opacity instead of using
z-index or visibility hidden.
Just a really quick opacity
change can look like a jump cut.
And sometimes you want that.